                                                                        How to Play Dou Shou Qi 
                                                                            "The Jungle Game"
                                                                            (Animal Chess)

                                                                            Dou Shou Qi 
Pronounced “Doe Show Chee,” which literally means Animal Fight Game, often referred to as "the Jungle Game," 
or simply, "Jungle." This is a popular game in China, especially among children. It is apparently derived 
from the very popular Xiangqi — the Chinese form of chess. Although Dou Shou Qi is not familiar to many in 
the western world, it has strong similarities to the game Stratego.


                                                                                Arrangement 
Note that the opposite sides do not mirror each other. The Elephant faces the Rat across the board; each player 
has the Lion at his right hand, etc.


                                                                                The pieces 
                                                                    Rat= 1                   Cat= 2
                                                                    Wolf= 3                  Dog= 4
                                                                    Leopard= 5            Tiger= 6
                                                                    Lion= 7                  Elephant= 8



                                                                            Objective of the game
To win the game, one player must successfully move any animal into the Den of the opponent 


                                                                            Movement of the Pieces
The basic move is just one space either forward, backward, left or right. The pieces never move diagonally.


                                                                                Captures
An animal is captured (or “eaten”) by an opposing animal moving onto its square, as in chess or Stratego. But the 
attacking animal must be of equal or higher power than the one being captured. For instance, the Tiger (6) can 
capture the Tiger (6), Leopard (5) or Dog (4), but the Dog can not capture the Leopard or Tiger.

                                                                                Special Powers 
1) The Rat, although it is the least powerful piece, has the power to capture the Elephant. The Elephant can not 
capture the Rat. It is said that this is because the rat can creep in under the Elephant’s ear and eat his brain (!).
2) The Rat, and no other animal, can move freely in the water. It can not, however, attack the Elephant from the 
water. 
3) Both the Lion and the Tiger can jump over the water, moving from one bank forward, backward, left or right 
(like a rook in chess) to the first square of dry land on the other side. They may capture in this move as well. 
The Lion and Tiger , however, may not jump over a rat if it is in the way, in the water.
 
 
                                                                                The Traps
Each side has three Trap squares surrounding its Den. A player may move on and off of his own Trap squares 
with no effect. If, however, a player moves onto the opponent’s trap square, that piece loses all of its 
power, and may be captured by any of the defending pieces.
 
                                                                                The Den
Animals are not allowed to move into their own Dens. When an animal moves into the opponent’s Den, it has 
won the game.

Reference
How To Play Dou Shou Qi. (n.d.). Ancient Chess.com. Retrieved 2021, August 29, 2021 from 
https://ancientchess.com/page/play-doushouqi.htm
